[audio playing...]
To say that Ukraine provoked a war with
Russia is like blaming a woman for being
raped because she wore red lipstick. And
I keep pushing this question, whose
fault is the invasion? The Unreal
answer, I guess is that anger will
destroy my soul, spoil my personality. I
am asked to be friendly and feel empathy
to all humanity, to love all to sit at a
round table with Russians. But if the
robber came to your house, and someone
tells you feel empathy, as he rapes or
kills or tortures your children, how
would this make you feel? Those from
colonial countries feel empathy for
Russian soldiers, because they have the
same issues. Bombs do not fall by
themselves, and armies are not made up
for only their leaders. It is why one of
the most important ideas to speak about
is the power in each individual to take
responsibility to stop sabotaging the
harmony of the world to stop
imperialistic States taking down others
simply because they want control. So
yes, we have anger on our side. But is
this worse than those with absolute
indifference on theirs? with fear and
anger, we have a right to live our own
lives. If you want me to end with a
positive statement, then it's this. I'm
fiercely grateful for our Ukrainian
armed forces. People like the Metro
Kusuma insky, a theatre and filmmaker
who tells us his story through signal
messages, because he is now a soldier on
the frontline. Dimitra was always a
warrior of art, always clear with his
political statements. So when the full
scale invasion started, he simply
changed his tools.
And I can say this because we are very
close. But I literally feel like he's
protecting me that he's making it
possible to continue my fights using
arts.
I spent all my childhood and youth in
Crimea.
It is my second home.
It is a place of strength, which
developed my character and defined my
existence.
Crimea was taken away by the Russian
Federation in 2014. And I can no longer
go there.
It is the main factor. Why join the
armed forces of Ukraine to liberate
Crimea, and to get home.
On the frontline, it is a completely
different life.
And what each person feels here is
completely different.
Everything depends on the location,
there was a time when I was in position
zero, the closest age of the frontline
there are your life is under constant
fire, shooting at orcs, bullets fly by
you.
Your everyday existence is reduced to
zero. Time behaves in changes in a
completely different way. At most, you
just have time to sleep in 10 days, you
can eat three times. And that's it.
Pleasure is a dream. Just doing
now I'm a signal operator responsible
for communication to our brigade.
The organization of a military unit and
the completion of basic tests are very
similar at the theater or film
production. There is unity, structure
and management of the team.
I tell the guys that the only difference
is that there is more responsibility as
a director, which is very strange,
because war concerns people's lives. But
sometimes such problems exist. As signal
operators. We make employees sold their
scalp tweets, and so on. We carry load,
fill tanks with skill to rip out. Fill
again. Drag Moon rag down, repair cars
filled with fuel repair cars again, make
radio sets put antennas up, put antennas
down, fill this fuel requirements down.
We repair it, we repair the wheels, we
repair the car again, put antenna it's
up and down. After 10 hours or 20 hours
we remove, move again and instead
The game. This is an ongoing story, if
not one task than the other, if not the
third than the first, you will hear
today, in this moment of life.
Being a soldier gives me an even greater
understanding of one's own psychology.
And once existence once been, and
oneself. Of course, I have changed
completely. But I don't know yet how
been a soldier influences me as an
artist.
I guess this will resonate later.
Culture is a weapon. It is our sword
that we carry, and with which we fight.
It is our own individuality, that keeps
going for hundreds and 1000s of years.
We should work even more on cultural
weapons, on bullet words, tank sounds,
too developing Ukrainian culture,
cannons that sing this combination will
create a completely different dimension
of our existence.
Somehow, I want to tell it all beauty
of course, I'm against war against
killing. But we are currently on the
defensive. We defend ourselves.
For what
for our culture to exist, for us to
exist for our nation to exist for our
children to exist, so they know that
they are Ukrainians.
So I want to say that I am here in the
ranks of the armed forces. Because we
must be here, we must defend our culture
we must protect.
[audio playing...]
Fortunately, I'm sure.
And then, we need to rebuild the
language
to break the link between a candle and a
trench
to allow him to regrow its feathers.
Instead of being used to label drones to
quell the fiery anger of the flowers,
Carnation peony, blue bottle and
occasion. The deadly weapons with wetek
needs
to restore the basement as the Haven.
Plus with Jamsil sprouting potatoes. The
greatest challenge is to rebuild the
language. Because even with all the
windows in place, there will still be
nothing more than empty frames on the
freshly painted wall and it's nothing
but there is no idols in place.
Even as we lay carpets, our clothes will
revolve around the sturdiness of the
floors beneath.
There was stripped our homes down to
their skeletons, these holes build away
our skin, as if to make it easy to
discern if our hearts are still beating
underneath
their heartbeats and we calm down
normally. This is now the meaning of the
word calm.
But will we be able to hear the word so
that occupies the long arm to the teeth
do not spill out of it?
Will we be able to reconstruct the word
comradeship so that it does not stick in
the throat?
And even if these words remaining the
field, useless and dull, like burn out
enemy tanks, should we grieve for them?
Don't we already have enough grief?
Across the centuries of Russian invasion
and occupation in Ukraine, 1000s of
artists have faced brutal censorship,
torture, and imprisonment.
You'll never know all their names or how
many people have been killed. So we'll
leave each person who has listened with
the name of one artist to remember
[audio playing...]